Git Basics: Clone, Push, and Pull

Git Clone:
Purpose: Used to create a local copy of a remote repository.
When to Use: When you want to start working on or view an existing project from GitHub or another remote repository.
Command: git clone [Repository URL]
Replace [Repository URL] with the URL of the repository you wish to clone.

Making Changes:
After cloning, you can make changes to the files, add new files, or modify the project as needed.

Git Add:
Purpose: Stages changes you've made to your local repository for a commit.
When to Use: After making any changes or additions to the files in your repository.
Command: git add .
or specify files to add selectively: git add <file1> <file2>

Git Commit:
Purpose: Records your staged changes in the local repository's history.
When to Use: After adding changes and before pushing them to ensure all your changes are captured in the history.
Command: git commit -m "Your descriptive commit message"


Git Push:
Purpose: Uploads your local repository content to a remote repository.
When to Use: After making changes, adding new files, or committing updates in your local repository, to share these changes with others or back them up on a remote server.
Command: git push origin main
This pushes your commits from the local main branch to the remote repository's main branch. Adjust the branch names as necessary.
Pushing to a Different Branch: git push origin lesson/commands

Git Pull:
Purpose: Updates your local repository with changes from a remote repository.
When to Use: To keep your local repository up-to-date with the latest changes made by others in the remote repository.
Command: git pull origin main
This pulls the latest changes from the remote repository's main branch into your local main branch. Adjust the branch names as necessary.
It is vital to pull the latest changes before you start making new modifications, particularly at the start of new features or bug fixes.
Adjusting for Different Branches:

If you are working on a branch other than main, replace main with your branch name.
command: git pull origin your-branch-name
git pull origin feature-branch


Setting Tracking Information:
If your branch does not automatically track the corresponding remote branch, you can set it with:
command: git push --set-upstream origin feature-branch
Once the tracking is set, you can pull from the tracked branch with just
command: git pull

Summary
Setting Tracking Information for Git Branches

Purpose: Setting tracking information configures your local Git branch to establish a default connection with a specific branch on a remote repository. This setup simplifies Git commands and ensures efficient workflow management.

Benefits:
Default Remote Branch: Linking your local branch lessons/commands to a specific remote branch means Git automatically knows which remote branch to interact with during operations like git pull or git push.
Simplify Git Commands: Once tracking is established for lessons/commands to track origin/lessons/commands, you won’t need to specify the remote branch for future pulls or pushes.
Convenience and Clarity: This prevents errors and streamlines your workflow, particularly when managing multiple features or branches.
How to Set Tracking Information:
To set your local branch lessons/commands to track the corresponding remote branch, use:git push --set-upstream origin lessons/commands
--set-upstream (or -u): This flag sets the upstream tracking branch.
origin: The name of the remote repository.
lessons/commands: Both the name of your local branch and the remote branch it will track.
After executing this command, lessons/commands will be linked to origin/lessons/commands, allowing you to use simplified commands: